New SwiftUI blog post and changes to featured posts css (#82)
xmartlabs/blog: _posts/2019-06-3-swiftui-flutter.md

---
layout: post
title: SwiftUI looks quite… Fluttery
date: 2019-06-03 17:00:00
author: Joaquín Rocco
categories: UI, Swift, Flutter
author_id: jrocco
featured_position: 1
featured_image: /images/swiftui-flutter/featured.jpg
---

> Good day everyone, so Apple just announced its new declarative UI Framework built from the ground up on Swift: **SwiftUI**. It’s for me the most interesting thing announced for developers at this year's WWDC. Let’s take a quick look at the basics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Good day everyone, so Apple just announced its new declarative UI Framework built from the ground up on Swift: **SwiftUI**. I think it's the most interesting thing announced for developers at this year's WWDC. Let’s take a quick look at the basics:
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

<p align="center">
<img width="100%" src="/images/swiftui-flutter/featured.jpg">
</p>

```

The first example in the new website is:

```swift
List(landmarks) { landmark in
   HStack {
      Image(landmark.thumbnail)
      Text(landmark.name)
      Spacer()
      
      if landmark.isFavorite {
         Image(systemName: "star.fill")
            .foregroundColor(.yellow)
      }
   }
}
```

At first glance, JUST WOW, this is such a departure from the current workflow which would involve creating a TableView and the cell, setting delegates and linking outlets, configuring the cell, etc…

> Lists rule mobile UI

> Lists are by far the most common UI layout used today (just think about how everything scrolls down in modern apps). And given how tedious it was to create a list using UIKit it makes a lot of sense that Apple shows this as their first demo. It’s like shouting to their audience a big “Look! This doesn’t suck anymore!”. This announcements goes perfefctly in line with the other WWDC keynote announcements, all which respond to long-awaited needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lists are by far the most common UI layout used today (just think about how everything scrolls down in modern apps). And given how tedious it was to create a list using UIKit it makes a lot of sense that Apple shows this as their first demo. It’s like shouting to their audience a big *“Look! This doesn’t suck anymore!”*. This announcements goes perfefctly in line with the other WWDC keynote announcements, all which respond to long-awaited needs.
```

> Lists are by far the most common UI layout used today (just think about how everything scrolls down in modern apps). And given how tedious it was to create a list using UIKit it makes a lot of sense that Apple shows this as their first demo. It’s like shouting to their audience a big *“Look! This doesn’t suck anymore!”*. This announcements goes perfefctly in line with the other WWDC keynote announcements, all which respond to long-awaited needs.

Author: ```suggestion
Lists are by far the most common UI layout used today (just think about how everything scrolls down in modern apps). And given how tedious it was to create a list using UIKit it makes a lot of sense that Apple shows this as their first demo. It’s like shouting to their audience a big *“Look! This doesn’t suck anymore!”*. These announcements go perfectly in line with the other WWDC keynote announcements, all which respond to long-awaited needs.
```

#### How similar is SwiftUI to Flutter?
Let’s take that first example from [Apple’s site](https://developer.apple.com/tutorials/swiftui/) again:

<p align="center">
<img width="300px" src="/images/swiftui-flutter/swiftui-example.png">
</p>

**Swift**
```swift
List(landmarks) { landmark in
   HStack {
      Image(landmark.thumbnail)
      Text(landmark.name)
      Spacer()
      
      if landmark.isFavorite {
         Image(systemName: "star.fill")
            .foregroundColor(.yellow)
      }
   }
}
```

**Now in Flutter**
```swift
ListView( children: landmarks.map((landmark) {
    return Row( children: <Widget>[
      Image.asset(landmark.thumbnail),
      Text(landmark.name),
      Spacer(),

      landmark.isFavorite ? Image.asset("assets/star.png"): SizedBox.shrink(),
      ]);
    }
  ).toList()),
```

## **That’s really similar! Isn’t it?**

There are a few Swift vs Dart syntax differences (Swift is definitely cleaner, with the help of some nice syntax sugar), but **the overall structure is *almost identical*.**

Although a really basic example, we can pick up some differences:

> * SwiftUI List’s receive a model and automatically maps it to the cell builder function. (nice!), in Flutter we need to use a map function and then turn it into a List. (Although this would probably be done using [List.builder](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/ListView/ListView.builder.html)).

Author: ```suggestion
* SwiftUI Lists receive a model and automatically maps it to the cell builder function. (nice!), in Flutter we need to use a map function and then turn it into a List. (Although this would probably be done using [List.builder](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/ListView/ListView.builder.html)).
```

* Adding optional elements is a bit trickier in Flutter, given a Widget lists cannot contain nulls ([currently in discussion](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/3783)).

> I’m wondering how much of this is on purpose, Apple has had a few years to look at what Google and others have been doing as use it as an inspiration. In the end, developers don’t want to learn 5 different ways of doing things, just one that works well is enough.

Author: ```suggestion
I’m wondering how much of this is on purpose, Apple has had a few years to look at what Google and others have been doing to use as inspiration. In the end, developers don’t want to learn 5 different ways of doing things, just one that works well is enough.
```
